---
title: Blog week 2
layout: default
---
[Return to main page](https://stevenmontilla.github.io)

Prepare a blog post of two paragraphs answering:

Summarize the analytical techniques applied and how the results of those techniques were communicated in text, numbers, tables, or data visualizations
Consider whether you consider this research paper to be reproducibile and whether you consider this paper to be replicable. Refer to the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine definitions of reproducibility and replicability and our prior discussions about GIS as a Science.

Wang et al. (2016) developed a methodology to analyse twitter activity during wildfires around the San Diego area in May of 2014. They used the twitter search API to collect tweets that contained the words "wildfire" and "fire" and then a sub-set of tweet containg information about specific locations where fires occured during that time frame. From the totality of tweets collected, they were only interested in those with geospatioal information. They used the 'coordinates' field to filter out unuseful tweets. Having georeferenced tweets, they performed kernel density estimation to understand the spatial pattern of the tweets. This may represent a problem because areas with larger population may produce more twitter activity in general. Thus, the results may appear as a population map which would not provide useful information for the analysis. Therefore, they had to normalize it by making a dual kernel density estimation where the number of tweets in each unit of analysis was divided by its corresponding population value. They also conducted other analysis such as interaction networks or word analysis to understand how people where communicating about the fires.

Regarding replicability and reproducibility, this methodology has growing potential. In terms of reproducibility, we would need the tweet ids in order to use the rehydratoR package to obtain the raw data. Nevertheless, I think they provided a clear outline of their methods, although there may be unclear specificities that could hurdle the reproduction of this study. In terms of replicability, I think this analysis can be applied to different contexts such as other types of natural hazards, or extrapolated to other social phenomena that sparks twitter activity. Nonetheless, the replicabiltiy of this sort of analysis may be limited to cultural contexts where twitter is widely used as a source of information, and where there is reliable electrical infrastructure and access to the internet given the short temporal scales of analysis. For example, in countries like Venezuela where Twitter is widely used, this kinds of analysis may be limited by the ability of people in the country to tweet given the constant internet and electricity outages, especially when coupled with natural disasters or civil unrest. 
